## [Question](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-array/)

> Given an integer array `nums` sorted in non-decreasing order, remove the duplicates in-place such that each unique element appears only once. The relative order of the elements should be kept the same.

> Since it is impossible to change the length of the array in some languages, you must instead have the result be placed in the first part of the array `nums`. More formally, if there are `k` elements after removing the duplicates, then the first `k` elements of `nums` should hold the final result. It does not matter what you leave beyond the first `k` elements.

> Return `k` after placing the final result in the first `k` slots of `nums`.

> Do not allocate extra space for another array. You must do this by modifying the input array in-place with `O(1)` extra memory.

## Ideas

Since the array is non-decreasing, all the duplicate numbers are placed next to each other. We could have two pointers, `read` and `write`, starting from 0. The `read` pointer will skip the number if it finds that the number is the same as the next number. Otherwise it writes the number to the position that `write` pointer points to.

```
r,w-> 2 3 3 3 6 9 9
2 r,w-> 3 3 3 6 9 9
2 w-> 3 r-> 3 3 6 9 9
2 w-> 3 3 r-> 3 6 9 9
2 3 w-> 3 3 r-> 6 9 9
2 3 6 w-> 3 6 r-> 9 9
2 3 6 w-> 3 6 9 r-> 9
2 3 6 9 w-> 6 9 9 r->
```

Now, all the numbers without duplications are put in the first four places, and `write` pointer pointing to position 4, which is just the length of the non-duplication array.

## Solution

```py
class Solution:
    def removeDuplicates(self, nums: List[int]) -> int:
        read, write = 0, 0
        while read < len(nums):
            if read == len(nums) - 1 or nums[read] != nums[read + 1]:
                nums[write] = nums[read]
                write += 1
            read += 1

        return write
```