## [Question](https://leetcode.com/problems/minimum-number-of-arrows-to-burst-balloons/)

> There are some spherical balloons spread in two-dimensional space. For each balloon, provided input is the start and end coordinates of the horizontal diameter. Since it's horizontal, y-coordinates don't matter, and hence the x-coordinates of start and end of the diameter suffice. The start is always smaller than the end.

> An arrow can be shot up exactly vertically from different points along the x-axis. A balloon with `x_start` and `x_end` bursts by an arrow shot at x if `x_start ≤ x ≤ x_end`. There is no limit to the number of arrows that can be shot. An arrow once shot keeps traveling up infinitely.

> Given an array points where `points[i] = [x_start, x_end]`, return the minimum number of arrows that must be shot to burst all balloons.


## Ideas

This looks similar to the question that removes overlapping intervals. Similarly, we first need to sort the balloons' x-coordinates, with end index as key and start index as secondary key. 

From the sorted list, we get the first balloon, which has the smallest end index. We want an arrow to be shot at the end index of the first balloon, so that it can shoot as many ballons as possible. If you move the arrow any further to the right, the first ballon wouldn't be shot. 

Then, with the position of the first arrow confirmed, we can skip all the ballons that would be shot by this arrow. Until we have some ballon that it has start index greater than the arrow index, then we need to shot another arrow.

So the time complexity would be `O(nlogn)` because of the presort, and we need `O(n)` extra memory space to keep the sorted ballons.

## Solutions

```py
class Solution:
    def findMinArrowShots(self, points: List[List[int]]) -> int:
        sorted_points = sorted(points, key=lambda x: (x[1], x[0]))
        total_arrow = 0
        last_arrow = float('-inf')

        for start, end in sorted_points:
            if start > last_arrow:
                total_arrow += 1
                last_arrow = end

        return total_arrow
```